stford Al Z it is 1316 GMT we're taking
you to uh the Dead Sea uh conference
center in Jordan it's hosting a summit
discussing the Urgent humanitarian
response for Palestinians in Gaza this
is US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
virtually everyone in Gaza depends on
Aid to survive most of gaza's Sanitation
systems been
destroyed fewer than a dozen of gaza's
40 hospitals are open and as we know and
have heard more than
270 humanitarian workers have been
killed one of those humanitarians uh was
Jamal Abu Kwak a longtime UNR staffer in
Gaza who for years was the United States
main local contact and for many a
friend he was killed last month after
evacuating Rafa he was looking for
shelter for his
family he survived by his wife and his
four
children the single most effective step
we can take to address the Urgent
humanitarian challenges in Gaza is to
reach an immediate and ultimately
enduring
ceasefire 11 days ago President Biden
set out a comprehensive proposal to do
precisely that in its first 6 weeks The
Proposal would provide for a full
ceasefire the pullback of Israeli forces
from all the populated areas of Gaza the
release of a number number of hostages
including women the elderly and wounded
a dramatic surge in Aid deliveries the
return of civilians to their homes or
neighborhoods in all parts of Gaza and
it would also initiate negotiations
toward a permanent ceasefire the second
phase would see the release of all
remaining living hostages the withdrawal
of all Israeli forces from Gaza the
implementation of a permanent cessation
of hostilities and the Final Phase would
launch a massive reconstruction effort
in
Gaza when I met prime minister Netanyahu
uh yesterday in Israel he reaffirmed his
support and his commitment to bringing
this proposal across the Finish Line the
same day yesterday the United Nations
security Council adopted a resolution
sponsored by the United States in
support of The Proposal 14 members voted
for it not one country opposed it it's
just the latest vote of support the
proposals received from around the world
from B everyone around this table the
Arab League countries throughout the
region today as We Gather one and only
one thing stands in the way of this deal
happening and that's a us so my primary
and first message today to every
government to every multilateral
institution to every humanitarian
organization that wants to relieve the
massive suffering in Gaza get Hamas to
take the deal
press them publicly press them
privately and Hamas should not require
much convincing after all the proposal
is nearly identical to one that Hamas
itself proposed on May the
6th having said that uh we're gathered
today because all of us I believe
recognize the imperative of taking bold
immediate actions to help civilians in
Gaza and to do it now and here are a few
thoughts on how we can do that going
forward first give more
Aid you've heard this already from our
colleagues at the UN only onethird of
the current United Nations appeal is
funded that leaves a shortfall of
approximately 2.3
billion every country can help fill this
Gap yet some who've expressed great
concern over the suffering of the
Palestinian people in Gaza including
countries with the capacity to give a
lot have provided very little or nothing
at all it is time for everyone everyone
to step up and for those who have
already given and given
generously give
more the United States has for decades
been the largest single country provider
of assistance for
Palestinians today I'm announcing an
additional $44 million in new Aid to
Palestinians in addition to the the more
than $1.8 billion in development
economic and humanitarian Aid that the
United States has provided since
second let's work together to ensure
that more Aid gets into Gaza and once
it's in Gaza reaches the people who need
it the most by land by air by
sea this has been our intense Focus
since the conflict
started particularly in recent months
Israel has taken some important steps to
open more Crossings to address obstacles
to the delivery of assistance but it can
and must do more as we convey directly
to the Israeli government it is crucial
to speed up the inspection of trucks and
reduce backlogs to provide greater
Clarity on and shorten the list of
prohibited Goods to increase visas for
Aid workers and to process them more
quickly to create clearer more effective
channels for humanitarian groups to
deconflict with IDF operations to Surge
life-saving medicine and equipment to
provide everything necessary to repair
water and sanitation
systems and Israel must take further
steps to reduce civilian casualties even
as it confronts an enemy that started
this war with the barbaric Slaughter of
civilians on October 7th an enemy that
conducts operations from schools from
hospitals from camps of displaced
families an enemy that s cynically hides
behind or underneath the people it
purports to
represent I think we all know there is
no time to waste given the hell that
hundreds of thousands of Palestinians
are enduring every single
day 10-year-old
Aban lost his parents his brother and
other family members they were killed in
an air strike that was targeting
terrorists he said
when my mom and dad were alive I used to
sleep now I can't sleep
anymore there's an acronym that has
become increasingly common for children
like Abbot in
Gaza WC
NSF wounded child no surviving family
members 6-year-old FY had cystic
fibrosis uh when the conflict began his
parents could no longer get the food and
medicine that he needed to remain
healthy before he was evacuated to the
United States from Gaza just last
month he was so severely Mal
malnourished that his legs could no
longer support the weight of his
body 11-year-old
dunia she lost her parents her brother
her sister when their home was struck in
conun she said
this I lost my leg I lost my family but
I still have dreams I want to get a
prosthetic leg I want to travel I want
to become a doctor I want for this war
to end and our children to live in
peace these three children Abid fat
dunia and all the Palestinian civilians
suffering in Gaza we know they're not
numbers they're not
abstractions they're human beings
they're children they're women men who
all want the same things that we want
for
ourselves and for our loved
ones just like the people who were
murdered in Israel October 7th just like
the hostages who continue to be held in
Gaza to this day so we all have to
recommit to doing our part to ensure
that these individuals cannot merely
survive but that they can live in peace
they can have their rights respected
they can have an opportunity to realize
their dream
dreams and we have to commit to
something else we have to commit
together to try to
extricate the poison in our Common
Wealth the poison of
dehumanization the inability to see the
humanity in the other when that happens
when Hearts Harden to the extent that
they have on all
sides then the worst becomes possible
and the best very very difficult to
achieve but but if we can see the
humanity in
everyone and commit to do everything we
possibly
can to uphold that Humanity then
everything's possible so let's do more
than just call for a better future for
Palestinians and
Israelis Let's help build that path to
the Future do it together
and we can start by maximizing all of
the efforts that we're engaged in to
help the people who need it and help
them now thank you very
much thank you Mr secretary if I may
call his Excellency Deputy Prime
Minister and foreign minister of
Pakistan you're watching o we're
bringing you live coverage of uh the
conference that's being held in Jordan
it's an emergency International
Conference working on humanitarian
response to Israel's war on Gaza that
was a round of applause that was just
following a statement that had been made
by US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
he said that the most important element
of uh most important stage to be reached
next was an immediate and uh com
comprehensive ceasefire he was outlining
the phases of the ceasefire that had
been put forward by US President Biden
and subsequently agreed on by the United
Nations security Council he said however
that one thing thing stands in the way
of this deal happening it is Hamas he
then called on all the members gathered
around the uh the tables there to get
Hamas to take uh to take the deal he
then went on to say there was going to
be a further $44 million that was going
to be pledged by the United States to
help Palestinians in Gaza and he
outlined some uh stories of three
children uh in Gaza who had been injured
and had lost family members as a result
uh of the Israeli action in Gaza
now make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler